Now one more thing I'll talk about with
waveforms before I move into frequency
analysis.
And splitting up a track into different
tones, and pitches and things like that.
One more thing is metering and
sort of getting the level of a track.
We can use the waveform data
to get the overall signal
the loudness sort of the volume.
And make some sort of
visualization based on that.
So for example here, we can see
that the circle is just changing
size based on the overall
signal of the entire track.
As it's louder, the circle gets bigger,
as it's quieter, the circle gets smaller.
So I'm gonna open that one up.
And this is doing pretty much the same
sort of stuff as we've seen before,
it's creating a new Analyzer node.
It has another thing here called smoothing
time constant which is another property
of the Analyzer node.
Which allows us to just have a bit of
a smoother result from one frame to
the next.
It's a little bit like the interpolation
or the smoothing that I was
talking about before except the web audio
API actually includes this built in.
So that you can get a little bit
of time smoothing between frames.
And then if we go down there's this
additional function that I've added here,
which is in the snippets so
if you're going to the course repo.
Here it is.
Inside the code snippets, you'll find
this it's called the root mean squared.
And this is basically just gonna give
us the strength of the signal and
value that goes between 0 and 1.
And so if we scroll down,
to where we're doing our Analyzer
node.get float time domain data.
Once we get the data, we pass that data
into the root mean squared signal.
And that's going to give us
some value between 0 and 1.
It's probably gonna be very
small the number that we get.
Because if the value is 1,
it means it's blasting audio and
our eardrums would be completely pierced.
So you just probably are gonna
want to scale that by some value.
And then maybe further scale it by some
pixel value to get an actual pixel size of
how big the circle should
be based on that signal.
[MUSIC]
And so already we're starting to get into
this visualization of the audio aspect.
So, based on this one,
we can just go one step further.
And we can actually split
that into different bands.
So we can say well,
what's the strength of the audio at
these different frequency bands?
So, when we talk about low and
high frequencies such as a treble,
cymbal crashes and high hats.
Versus a really low frequency sound
like a kick drum, or guitar pluck,
those are the different frequency bands.
And so we can start to split
the track up into those bands.
Or we can start to visualize
the signal of those different bands and
potentially create a more
interesting audio visualization.
So now suddenly here we're
visualizing this piano sound.
And we're seeing how the track is
actually changing its form in terms of
its frequency.
[MUSIC]
So, just to skim this one,
it's a little bit more advanced as well.
The next thing I'm gonna talk
about after this is frequency and
all sort of distill what this
frequency stuff is all about.
But just so you can see, this is one
way of splitting up the frequency.
And it's using the Web Audio API itself.
So instead of having to do
a bunch of frequency math and
having to go into the frequency arrays and
figure them all out.
We're just gonna use the same metering
that we used in the last demo.
Just the root mean squared, except we're
gonna use several different audio nodes.
Where the meter is on each of
those different audio nodes.
And so we start with different bands of
frequency, with different colors assigned.
And again I'll talk a little bit more
about what this frequency value means it's
in hertz.
But this will be to different
bands of tones sort of.
So these lower numbers
represent lower frequency, and
these higher numbers represent
higher frequency sounds.
And then each of those bands,
we're gonna create a new Analyzer for
that specific band.
We're gonna create a new float array for
that specific band,
and also what's called a filter
Node AN biquad filter.
And what this can do, is that it's
an audio node where any signal that gets
passed into it, we can shape the signal.
So that we only end up taking let's say,
a certain range of frequencies.
Let's say just the low end frequencies,
and
all the others get cancelled out to zero.
And what that means, is that we can then
pass that signal on to the Analyzer.
And then use the analyzer just as we were,
the root mean squared,
in order to actually get a strength
of just a single band of frequency.
And so this is a great way
to do audio visualization.
It's actually I would say the way that
might be preferred, at least by me,
I really have started to prefer this way.
One of the reasons is that it's very
adjustable, very easily adjustable,
and it just works out of
the box with Web Audio API.
It's a little bit more setup because
you have to create an analyzer for
each band of frequency, and
you have to do a few extra things.
But it supports this really nice sort of
smooth fall off because of these filters
that we're using.
But I'm not gonna go into this crazy depth
of the biquad filter because it's a whole
wormhole.
But I would highly recommend if you
wanted to continue along this path.
And making these really smooth and
sort of polished audio visualizers,
you might wanna look
into this biquad filter.
And just to show you the API docs here for
a sec, there we go.
It has a lot of these different
types of filtering mechanisms.
So it allows us to cut off
low end frequencies or
to cut off high end frequencies.
Or the one we're using is just a bandpass
which means only allow a certain band of
frequencies to pass through.
Or others where it's a knotch filter,
which is kind of
the opposite of a bandpass.
It only allows everything except
the band that we specified.
And then we can very easily with the the
audio params just like the gain node.
We can adjust those values in
terms of the bandwidth, and
how much of the frequency we wanna take,
or how much we wanna cut off.
So this biquadfilter is really powerful,
something to look into for
a little bit later.
And for
just your own sort of exercises perhaps.